All right, so turning back to the A.D., we are still in the main Java class here, and I want to present
you with another scenario.
So let's say that we want our application to allow a user to enter a first name of an employee just
saying first name just to keep it simple to enter a first name of an employee and get the calculated
salary for that employee.
OK, now we're not going to actually fully implement all of that at this time.
I don't feel like I don't think we really need to bother implementing the ability to actually type in
their name right now.
But let us imagine that that's the basic scenario that we are going for, right?
Type in a first name, get the the calculated salary for that particular employee.
So let us first consider how we could do this with the knowledge that you currently have.
OK.
And in fact, I think what we might even try to do here is to create a method that represents this functionality
that I'm talking about.
OK, so let's dust off one of the skills that we learned a while back just to kind of review a few things.
And I think this will actually be kind of helpful.
So what I'm thinking we will do, we will create a method that takes as an input, a string, which
will be the first name of a potential employee of the company, and it will return an integer, which
will be the associated salary for that user.
OK.
However, in order to test out this functionality, let's actually write a few unit tests, something
that we haven't done in a while.
OK.
So one of the easy ways that we can do this is while we are here in the main Java class, we can tell
the ID to go ahead and just generate a test for us, and we can do that if you'll recall with a command
shift T.
All right.
And so I'm getting presented with the Create new test item here.
Menu item here, and I'm going to hit Enter or you can click on it.
And sure, we'll use the Unit five and we'll take the default name here.
Default name is OK.
Destination packages, OK?
Everything looks pretty good to me, and I'm going to click, OK?
All right.
So I'm going to hold down on shift and hit return to make a new line, maybe a couple of new lines,
in fact, and I'm going to do an at test and hit enter to get that imported, which you now see on Line
three.
And then a hit return again and a public void.
Remember that test methods need to be public and void.
And let's see.
So we'll test a scenario.
And honestly, now oftentimes when I create my unit test methods, initially, I don't even want to
think a whole lot about what to call them.
I'll often just put a placeholder name there.
Go ahead and start kind of fleshing out what I want to test.
And then once I'm kind of done with that, I will then come back and name my test method something meaningful.
You don't have to do it that way, by the way, that's not something I read in the book.
That's just what seems to work better for my head, for whatever reason.
So for right now, I'm just going to call this maybe a test name to salary, and I'll probably come
back and rename that.
OK, so let's see here we are going to have an instance of the main class somewhere for now, I will
just refer to it in this way.
Main Main.
Equals new main.
OK, so I've created an instance of the main class, and then I'm going to actually want it to run because
if we jump back over to the main class with another command shift, because command shift, you not
only will create the test if it doesn't exist, but it also allows us to toggle back and forth between
the test class and the system under test.
So command shift again and I jump back over to the main class now.
So our main method in the main class is where we're doing all of the work currently, as you see here.
And so one of the things to keep in mind is that currently this main method is parsing this list.
This text less this string really of employees and then populating our collection from that text list,
right?
So we're kind of initializing a collection of data, and I'm thinking offhand that we're going to still
want to do that.
So I'm sort of thinking we probably need to go ahead and just call the main method.
And in fact, if you think about it, the way we've been testing our code thus far has been manually
by simply running the main method, right where we're either clicking here or I'm doing a command shift
or something like that.
But what I'm doing is I'm running the main method now that we're about to write an automated test.
We may still want to run that main method.
OK, that's kind of what I'm thinking there.
So let's see what this looks like.
So I'm going to jump back over to the test class again with a command shift T.
And all I need to do is type main main like that.
Now it's giving me an error because the main method takes some inputs, and if I hover my cursor right
here at the parentheses, it's telling me that it's expecting a an array of strings, right?
A string array to be passed in.
So what I can do here is I can just create one on the on the fly new string array.
And now I need to give it a size.
But since I don't mean to pass in a string array with any actual values in it because we don't need
that here, I will initialize it to size zero just like that.
OK, so I'm passing in an empty string array in this case.
And now my errors have gone away.
All right, now, I'm going to pretend like I have another method on this, on this class where I can
pass in a first name of someone and then get back a salary, right?
So.
Let's say main dot.
Get salary and I will pass in someone's name like.
Wilma?
And then I will pretend like that method, which does not yet exist, will return an integer and I will
just capture that integer in a variable called salary for right now.
All right.
And now I will want to go ahead and address these, this this red mark here, forget salary because
the aide is telling me get salary is a method that does not yet exist.
And so I can put my cursor here and then to an option return or alt enter to have the ADP go ahead and
create this method for me in the main class.
So I will choose this first option create method, get salary in Maine.
Hit return.
There we go.
And so now I have the boilerplate for this, and if I just hit, enter and accept the most of the options
that it's offering me, so the return type isn't, I'm good with that.
The input type is strong.
I'm good with that.
The name of that input variable, though, is Wilma.
I don't like that.
I will simply call it
first name and then I'm going to hit return again.
And there we go.
So it's returning me a zero there.
OK, and now the red marks have gone away back over here in the test class.
Sorry about that.
I jumped back over to the test class.
Hopefully you caught that.
All right.
And then I need to assert something.
If you'll recall, we don't have a valid unit test method if we aren't actually asserting anything.
So by default, if I were to run this test right now, it would pass.
But that pass would be meaningless, right?
Because I'm not doing anything.
So we need to make an actual assertion.
OK, so I don't actually recall how much Wilma is supposed to make.
Let me see here, actually, if I if we jump back over here to the main class and I guess we'll just
rerun it and then we can see the output.
Let's see.
Uh, Wilma?
OK.
Let's see, so, Wilma.
Well, it's making two thousand five hundred six, if you'll recall, this first number is the salary
and then the second number is the bonus or whatever.
So I guess we'll we'll take this this first bit here.
Two thousand five hundred six.
OK.
And then I will do a command shift you to jump back over to the test.
What's actually I need to be my focus needs to be up here in the in the ED and not down here in the
output.
So if I put my focus up here and then command shift T. Okay, cool.
Now I can jump back over here.
And so now I can make an assertion so I will assert equals.
And I will assert that I'm expecting.
Two thousand five hundred six from the salary.
OK, so notice I'm leaving off the dollar sign and the decimal place because this is an integer.
It's not a string.
So dollar signs wouldn't be applicable here at this point, nor would a nor would a decimal place right?
OK, so let's run this and see it fail, because that's how we properly do tests, right?
We we write the test.
And just a minimal implementation of the method to not have errors.
Then we run the test and generally speaking, it should fail.
Then we do the minimal thing to make it past typically.
All right.
So I'm going to run this test, OK?
And it failed.
And if I highlight this test here now, there's our output because we're running the main method.
And that's fine.
And then here's the so there's the output of the actual, you know, running of the main class because
it's still going to do that.
We're calling main method from here now.
So that's all expected.
But down here is the output of the actual test, you know, assertions and everything.
So we were expecting two thousand five hundred six.
We got back to zero because our newly created get salary method is hard coded currently to return a
zero.
Now, technically with TDD, what I should do at this point is to simply hard code two thousand five
hundred six into the implementation of the get salary method and then rerun this test.
It would pass and then go write another test similar to this one, but with a different input.
I'm going to skip over that, but I'm stating what I should be doing here so that I remind you of how
to do TDD and just testing in general in the official proper way.
But for time constraints, I'm not going to go through all of that because I want to stay a little more
focused on the main problem at hand.
All right.
So how do we get this number to actually work, right?
So let's jump over here into our get salary method, and I just did a command option B to jump into
this, by the way, or a command alt or a control alt B. All right.
So and let's minimize this.
OK, so how can we get this salary so if we jump up here?
So we know that we have all of this data at our disposal and that it is contained within the employee's
collection right here, right?
Because here we are looping over the employees, storing it one one at a time in this worker variable
here and then calling two string, which is printing out all of that information, the first name,
last name and the the salary and the bonus and all of that.
So there's all that data there, right?
So one thing that we could conceptually do here is to iterate over this collection and look for the
employee with the first name that we care about, right?
Which would be whatever first name was passed into here.
And then when we find that particular employee, then dig out their salary and return it right.
However, we've got an issue.
We want to do that in this method here, but this method does not have access to the employee's collection,
right?
How can we allow this method to access this employee's collection?
Why don't you take a moment to think about that?
OK, so there are maybe a couple of ways you may think about doing this one way is that you could perhaps
change the get salary method to pass in this collection of employees, and then this method could maybe
like iterate over the employees and look for the one with the first name and return the salary that
way.
However, the problem with that approach is that it's a bit convoluted.
First off, who would need to pass in the employee's collection into this get salary method, right?
So if we go back over to the test?
Think of the test.
As you know, it's kind of an outsider who's using the program.
OK, the test itself is not part of the program.
The test represents a user of the program, if you will.
OK.
It's a robot that's using the program.
So right now, the main class has no easy way for the test to get a hold of the employees and then pass
those employees into this get salary method call.
OK, now we could expose that somehow, but I'm just saying right now that capability is not there.
So but that maybe could be one way.
I'm going to say right now, that's not my preferred way to do this at all, though I would not like
to expose that internal collection for that purpose.
I think it's unnecessary to do.
All right.
So jumping back over into the get salary method, the other way that I can think of that we could do
this, though, might be to simply turn this employee's collection, which is being initialized right
here on Line 43, turn this employee's collection or this variable, which is currently a local variable
in the main method.
Turn it into a field because by making this variable a field of the entire class, we now make this
variable visible to all methods of the class.
OK.
And it's easy enough to do.
We can simply highlight this, this variable here.
Right click it, go down to refactor.
And then choose Introduce Field, right?
We've done this before, so I'm going to select that.
And the ABC is asking us if we want to accept the default settings here, and I think that's OK.
Let's see what we get, so I'm going to just hit return.
OK, so notice now.
The left hand side of what we had for this employees variable here has disappeared now.
OK?
Where we were specifying the data type and all of that, that's that's gone from here because we are
no longer declaring the employees filled here on Line 46.
It is now being declared in a field right here on Line 12.
So basically, it just moved all of these bits up here.
OK.
Now, take note that this variable is static because our main method is static.
And so by default, the IDC assumes that any variables that were being utilized in the static main method
should continue to be static.
Which is correct, in fact, they need they have to remain static with the way that the code is currently
written.
But now the nice thing is that we can access this variable from all other methods of the class.
So now if we come down here to the get salary method, let me go ahead and just write this code real
quick.
So we want to iterate over the employees pretty much the same way that we are doing here.
Pretty much the same thing.
So let's see what we'll get here.
For AI employee employee, now we're using the enhanced for loop, right?
So we're we specify the data type of the the data, type of the objects inside of the collection that
we want to iterate over, followed by a colon and then the name of the collection that we want to iterate,
which is employees just like so and so just note.
Again, if it wasn't 100 percent clear, we could not have access this employee's variable inside of
this method without first extracting this method or converting this method into a field of the entire
class.
OK.
And so that's why we extracted this out into a field so that it would be visible.
This variable employees would be visible to all methods of the class.
All right.
Now also recall that because we're currently referring to the employees with the type I employee, that
method only exposes the salary and not the name.
We are going to need access to the name, so we're going to have to cast this employee to two another
data type that exposes the actual names on it.
So the names are there, but we won't be able to see them underneath this employee interface.
That's the problem, right?
So we need to recast the employee variable to something of another data type, and that data type will
be just the capital employee, right?
So what I will do here is put my cursor right here and just create another variable of type employee
with a capital E. And I'll just call this MP equals, and now I'm going to cast and to cast.
I just use parentheses.
Employee like that.
And then I refer to the variable I'm casting.
So we're telling Java to take this variable, which is of type I employee, which it does have the name
data in it, but it can't be seen underneath the mask, if you will, of of this interface, I employee.
And we're telling Java to recast this variable to look like an actual employee, and we can do that
because it is an actual employee.
We you can't just you can't just cast any variable type to any other variable type.
Of course, we can do this because in truth, this really is a variable that is both an I employee as
well as an employee, right?
Because of the interface that it's implementing, as well as the actual sub or as well as the actual
superclass that it is a type of.
OK, so that's why we can we can do this, this casting in this case.
OK.
And so the new the new requested employee will be referred to simply with the name ENP.
All right.
And then maybe we want to say something like if first equals MP Typekit first name,
then maybe just return.
MP does get salary.
How about that?
All right.
So we can just go ahead and try this real quick, and actually I still have my test window open right
here, so I could just rerun this test right here if you, for whatever reason, happened to completely
have closed this, though.
You could also just jump back over to the test with a command shift.
And then rerun the test right there as well, either way.
So I'm going to rerun this now.
And let's see what we end up with.
Hey, there we go.
And now it passes.
OK, so that works, right, that that works just fine.
Now let me tell you this.
Don't do this.
This is maybe not the greatest, right?
So let's let's talk about why this is not why this is maybe not the best way to to do this.
So what we're doing is we're simply saying, Hey, here's in fact here, let me jump up here.
So what we're doing is we're saying, here's a list of all these employees and all these employees have
an association with a salary, right?
And for any given employee by their first name, I want to grab their salary, right?
And the way we're doing it now is just to methodically iterate through this list of employees and say,
Are you for it or are you?
Who are we looking for?
Are you, Wilma?
And when we finally find Wilma, then we grab her salary and return it right?
The problem with this approach is that it is tedious and and kind of a waste of time, really.
What we're having to iterate over potentially potentially all of the employees, if you happen to pick
someone who comes at the very bottom of the list, right?
So you're having to go through this entire list.
What if we had millions and millions of employees now granted?
I mean, it's a computer, so it could iterate through even millions of these small records very quickly.
However, it is still a very wasteful way of looking up this data.
A much better way to do this might actually be in this case to utilize a map.
And so what we could do instead is to populate a map of this association of the first name of an employee
to their salary.
So you'd end up with this list, but it would be a list of of key value pairs.
OK.
And then you can ask the map to give you the salary for the given key of the first name, and the map
doesn't need to iterate through this whole entire list.
It's actually really, really fast, especially if we use the hash map, right, because it will create
a hash for each key.
And then when we supply it with a name, it will regenerate that hash for the inputted name that we've
given it.
Find out what index that's at and then just jump straight to that index and give us the value.
OK, so that's what a hash map can do.
So let's go ahead and do that in the next lesson.
I'll see you there.